i think we've still got nihachu on
wednesday and and asman gold on friday
um and today we're gonna be talking with
the bjergsen
beer the beer
bjergson
welcome thank you um
and what do you what do you go by
uh sauron okay sorry that's good
and um you know you can call me alok or
dr k like
you know whatever you prefer okay um
yeah so thank you so much for coming on
soren how are you doing today
i'm good i'm nervous but i'm good i
think most people usually are and i i
still don't know quite what to do about
that
um there's only so much you can do i
think yeah
so what are you nervous about
uh just being vulnerable on such an open
platform
i mean that's the kind of beauty of it
but that's also uh
i guess what makes me nervous at least
yeah and are you planning on being
vulnerable today
i think it's kind of hard not to be on
on your channel from all the talks that
i've seen
well yeah at the fair point but you know
we can help you not be vulnerable if if
you don't want to
no i mean i think being vulnerable is a
it's a good thing it's just a difficult
difficult thing
absolutely man well said well said um
did you have an idea of what you wanted
to talk about today
uh i have an idea where we can start and
then
sure i'm happy to go wherever you kind
of see the conversation going or any
observations that you might have
sorry one second so you know yeah
so um yeah so what where would you like
to start sauron
uh it might be hard for me to
to kind of vocalize this because i
haven't really told anyone but
uh so in league of legends whether
you're coaching or playing there's a
very distinct like on season and off
season
and people grind really hard in the on
season and then
[Music]
you have a lot of free time sometimes
even kind of months so you're not doing
where you're not really working and
i feel sometimes like i'm two different
people
especially in terms of uh
the things that i really miss in season
are the things that i feel like are
really different or
especially i don't really have a lot of
feelings during the season
i'm very like robotic uh
good things bad things i'm pretty stoic
okay uh
and and that feels pretty different when
i'm off season i'm definitely more in
touch with my emotions i feel like
okay and the other thing is kind of just
creativity i guess or seeing things
from a different perspective being more
aware of my surroundings and i'm kind of
aware of myself even
uh in the in the season i feel like that
kind of goes away and i'm really just
grinding and sometimes i don't really
have a good perspective on how to
solve issues or see things in a
different way
and uh i have had that sometimes during
the season and i feel like those are
kind of some of my best
times where i'm able to just be more
aware of what i'm doing and how i can
kind of optimize
the way that i'm living and working and
trying to do my job
the best that i can okay so let me just
um
kind of repeat back what i heard make
sure we're on the same page
um first of all turn this sounds like
very
intriguing to me i'm i'm i i'm
um it seems like an observation
that i actually have like imagined very
few people actually have the awareness
to sort of make
um it seems like a very kind of uh
it seems like you're aware of your
internal environment and how much that
can change
drastically between the on season and
the off season is that a good way to put
it
and so you've noticed that you have you
you maybe
don't feel a lot of things during the
season and in the off season
are we saying that you feel too much or
you feel a normal amount or what
a normal amount okay i'm not kind of
bursting at the seams as soon as the
season is over
but okay more and more kind of natural
things like
uh i'm able to kind of cry when it's
appropriate during the season
i'm kind of very just uh
stoic i guess is the word that i would
use okay
and that you also mentioned something
about awareness
and how you're able to see things
differently during the on season
off season and that maybe you're not
quite
as aware of things during the on season
and then you also
also said that sometimes when you have
been aware during the on season that
it's been actually really good
can you help me understand that
[Music]
i think it's just the times where
non-season it was really helpful for me
it's just really being aware of
team dynamics or the issues or how we
can improve the way that we are working
together or talking to each other or
it's obviously really flexible when you
are aware of those things
but i think a lot of people in the
league of legend scene can really
well just talking to people they feel
like they get really lost in the sauce
during the season and they just
end up kind of going through in the
motions and kind of doing the same
things over and over again and then
after the season is over it's like wait
what i was just doing this thing kind of
over and over again and not really
um able to reflect and
see things from a different perspective
and
i very much feel that same way i'm
noticing that there's a lot of autopilot
once the season starts it's just grind
grind grind
yeah i mean i think in the beginning
people are
motivated and excited and trying new
things and more creative and then kind
of as the season goes on as the
months of grinding goes on i think it a
lot of things become more
automated how do you understand why that
happens
um
maybe just a sheer amount of hours i'm
not really sure i mean i didn't
have a day off from late december till
like the second week of april uh of
course i had time off and i didn't have
a
kind of day off to myself so i think
obviously the time where you're away
from the game and what the time where
you're doing different things and away
from the team i think that definitely
gives you
uh kind of a different perspective and
more time to self-reflect
that sounds insane man yep
yeah this may sound like and you know i
i don't want to
um if we skirt close to anything that
could be like
you know sharing internal secrets or
things like that please steer
you know i'm just going to ask you a
question just let me know if anything i
ask is out of line but
how on earth do you not have a day off
in four months
how does that work why
well i think most people do is just i'm
the head coach so
on the typical off day i'm usually doing
i'm usually watching our matches for the
weekend and preparing them for
our meetings next week i'm having
meetings with my staff i'm having
meetings with
my general manager head of esports and
also ceo
uh so that's on your off day
yeah because it's hard to fit it in on
my my birthdays
okay well
you know sword i i know this may be a
little bit different from
what you had originally said but i think
that may be worth talking about what do
you think
uh yeah okay i think it could be worth
talking about
what makes it hard to fit in meetings
with your ceo
and general manager on your work days
no i mean i definitely could in the
evening it's just
a lot of the time i'm pretty pooped
uh just from
i think a typical work day we meet up at
and then we're kind of done with team
practice around either 6 p.m or maybe 8
p.m
and then on some days of the week i'm
having kind of individual meetings with
the players
and um
the last day of the week going into
matches there's also always a lot of
prep
around kind of different aspects of the
game the the opponent the draft
and i'm responsible for a lot of that
not that prep for the opponents luckily
i have a
strategy coach that helps with that but
um
it's just hard if it fit things in and
i also need to have a little bit of uh
off time obviously on those days or
i kind of might lose my mind yup
absolutely
so let me ask you something what would
happen if you missed two hours of team
practice on monday
monday's actually our day off but yeah
on tuesday i don't know
what happened because i haven't tried i
mean
sometimes i do ask my assistant coach to
take over for me if i'm just really
exhausted or
uh if i just want a different
perspective see someone else
lead meetings and review thoughts
i haven't been away from practice at all
what keeps you so close to practiced
i mean i'm a new coach this is my first
five months of coaching so i feel like
i have a lot of catching up to do and
i
um yeah i just feel like i guess i need
to work harder than everyone else
because i'm so new in coaching but
i still want my team to do i don't want
to hold my team back
so i guess i just want to make the most
of every
opportunity to learn and grow and become
better
what she's looking for
oh sorry okay [ __ ]
you're damn right [ __ ]
okay so let's let's unpack this a little
bit okay
so sorry if did i just make you nervous
by smiling and saying you're damn right
[ __ ]
no i mean i i know i definitely have a
little bit of a
maybe toxic productivity kind of mindset
tell me what okay what do you mean by
toxic productivity mindset can you help
us understand that phrase
[Music]
i don't really know how to okay let's
phrase it okay
okay yeah is it okay if we dig into this
today
yeah okay um i'm gonna ask you that
question two or three more times because
i suspect
that we're going to get to feelings that
may feel
actually uncomfortable and and my
concern is that you have such a
toxic productivity and growth oriented
mindset that even if things are
uncomfortable
you'll never say no
well a big part of why i'm even here is
that the
i'm just trying to get outside my
comfort zone more okay and i guess
because you're trying to grow
[Laughter]
ain't nobody got time for that that's
what i'm saying
you know gotta grow whatever the cost to
you
a little bit okay i think that's what
that's what toxic toxic productivity
i've never heard that phrase before but
i i think it's well said
coined well so let's start with this
okay
i'm gonna lay things out and then we're
gonna explore and what i the reason i'm
gonna lay things out is because um
i'm imagining that there's a part of
your mind that's really really concerned
about like stepping into
a trap of some kind you mentioned you
are nervous i think you have
you're going to have a tendency to set
aside your own feelings for the sake of
growth
so i'm going to try to alleviate this a
little bit it's not usually how i work
usually we'll have the revelation at the
end
but i'm just going to give it to you
anticlimactically at the beginning and
then we're going to explore it
and the reason i'm gonna do that is that
i hope it'll put your mind a little bit
at ease
okay okay so the first thing is that
you know i've seen this a lot so i've
worked with a fair number of esports
organizations before
and and not just esports but basically
any
high performing top tier like 0.1
organization you go to so i've seen this
at places like harvard business school
i've seen it at hospital systems you
know tech companies um
there's this idea that more is better
so for example like in residency
training like we we do like 24-hour
calls we do 30-hour calls
there's this kind of this idea that like
you know if you work 80 hours a week or
a hunt working 100 hours a week
is better than working 80 hours a week
you know that that like work like
working more is better
and and i've i've struggled a lot to
sort of like
get people to experiment with this and
i'd say the the
hardest uphill climb i've ever had to
make which i failed to make
was working with a korean overwatch team
and that's gonna be a challenge and they
just didn't
like accept that working less could lead
to better results
and and this is where and i've managed
to convince some people
that actually like you know rather than
doing team practice for 12 hours a day
or eight hours a day
that doing team practice for like four
hours six hours a day and doing like
an hour of meditation and yoga and an
hour of like
something else actually leads to like
better outcomes
than just grinding what do you think
about that
i think one of the most difficult things
about the game that
i was playing professionally for a long
time and i'm coaching is that it changes
a lot
that really rewards the grinders because
the game is always changing a lot so you
always need to adapt and
figure out what's strong what counters
this new thing that's strong
this thing that was powerful it's now
been made maybe five percent ten percent
weaker is it still viable
which situations is it viable uh so it
really rewards grinders and honestly the
biggest grinders
are the most successful in league of
legends okay um
so it definitely it does require putting
a lot of hours but
of course up until a certain point um
yeah so so and this is where ultimately
you're the expert here right because i
don't know
how many hours of grinding before you
start hitting diminishing returns
it's generally speaking been my
experience that people tend to
overemphasize grinding
and and i i don't know really to i mean
and each esport is different but it's
been my experience that
most of the time like in 80
of the esports orgs i've worked with
that de-emphasizing grinding
usually leads to better performance that
being thoughtful
it doesn't mean that you're not thinking
about the game it's just being
thoughtful about your practice is
actually better than like grinding
yeah um but that's not where we're gonna
go
what we're gonna go then what i would
say when i was a player is
why can't i be thoughtful while grinding
yeah okay
there it is okay so so so wha
why would you say that as a player
where does that come from um because
that that sounds like
the best of both worlds you're kind of
getting all the benefits right
be more deliberate in your practice but
also shooting for the best
yeah okay so but what we're going to
talk about is
you feel like you have a lot of catching
up to do
long have you felt that way
wow uh
in general i assume you mean more in
general yeah
um
now we're hitting the the big stuff
i don't know if it's the big stuff but
uh it's pretty public i made a facebook
post many years ago that i was
bullied really heavily in school from
fourth grade to
eighth grade when i actually dropped out
of school and
dropping out of school kind of caused me
to play a lot more video games which
somehow turned into a job which somehow
brought me where i am now
so i was really fortunate in that sense
but
i was kind of in and out of school
for i can't remember how long because
honestly a lot of my young past is kind
of a blur
at this point but i was in my own school
for a long time
i pretty much didn't leave my room i
didn't see anyone outside of my
family and had a lot of anxiety
interacting with other people and
even when i started going to esports
tournaments i felt
just like very underdeveloped for my age
and even coming to the us here when i
was 17 18
i wasn't really able to upkeep a
conversation with another person
uh the only thing i really knew was the
game and that's what i
dove into uh and i think at that point i
definitely felt like
i'm uh
i guess undeveloped underdeveloped for
my age like my life skills my social
skills
these kinds of things and
it was super uncomfortable but i just
tried to
still spend a lot of time with people
and
learn how to be a normal person screw
your feelings right
um
[Music]
i don't know that's a difficult one i
mean
when when i was
listening to my feelings when i was
depressed they were just telling me
don't see other people stay in your room
play video games all day
uh and it was really when i
i guess
just really got outside my comfort zone
i went to an esports event in sweden
met a bunch of other met my teammates in
person which is really terrifying
because i was
really deeply insecure um
but then my team got top eight i think
and then we actually qualified
for the lcs when lcs was starting back
in season three so this is
maybe eight years ago so we qualify for
lcs and then that
really got me the job as an esports
player so
so you have to work harder than everyone
else
yeah i think i always felt that way i
never felt like i was
super intrinsically talented
i always felt like a lot of my skill
came from
my work ethic i think that's certainly
true
by the way i loved your answer to screw
your feelings because you were like
it's tough because sometimes my feelings
tell me to stay in my room and
not interact with anyone and you've had
to learn how to master your feelings at
times
yeah they still do tell me that
sometimes
wow okay and then you also said i don't
want to hold everyone back
can you tell me um
[Music]
yeah i mean i think the natural
progression of a coach is kind of to
start
coaching maybe individual players and
then maybe coaching an amateur or
academy team but i went straight from
playing lcs to coaching kind of a
top-tier multi-million dollar team so i
just don't want to
hold them back with my inexperience do
you feel
underdeveloped
[Laughter]
um
do i feel underdeveloped
i feel like i don't have a ton of
experience yet i would say
so does that kind of answer your
question or does it not i think it's uh
it's a very artful dodge
that could be an answer if i wanted to
accept it as one
and and i'm not i'm not you know if it's
an answer it's an answer
so if your answer is no i don't feel
underdeveloped
what i feel is inexperienced and there's
a difference
because i think the other challenge here
is soren is that
i think that yeah what would you say to
that
i just don't understand the the
difference between the two
okay inexperienced and underdeveloped
okay
you would say that those are the same
thing
uh in this coaching case i i definitely
will develop with experience
of course it's not the only thing but
yeah yeah
so here's my concern
is that as long as you feel like you
have catching up to do
you're going to act in a way that
alleviates those feelings
and the challenge is that there may come
a time where you have caught up
but just because you've technically
caught up
may not actually have anything to do
with the feeling of having caught up
and and i i'm curious also
yeah you don't really know when you've
caught up because you i also don't
really see other
yeah i mean it's just a hard thing it's
not a very linear thing like oh now i've
caught up now i have these skills
exactly so i i see you putting yourself
into like an unwinnable proposition
because you're never gonna know whether
you've caught up or not and you're gonna
be like
driving yourself forward because you
feel like you need to catch up
and even though and i know this sounds
weird so like sometimes certain people
who have your your complex for lack of a
better term
you know these people who feel like
they're under developed feel like they
have to work really bad i mean really
hard
feel like they've fallen behind they
will
like work so hard that they'll actually
rise i know this sounds absolutely crazy
they'll rise to the top of their field
and sometimes even in video gaming for
example
are like 20 million players in this game
called league of legends
and they'll actually rise to a top tier
team in a professional
league of legends capacity and they
still feel like they have catching up to
do
i know it sounds absolutely crazy
no
right so what does catching up look like
[Music]
can i ask is that such a bad feeling to
have or do you just think
it's kind of a deep-seated uh
like you don't you don't ever feel like
you're enough it's not kind of the
is that how you feel like you never feel
like you're enough
[Music]
i i don't ever think that but if i think
that i can always grow
maybe yep well said right
so so i i'm not hearing that you really
i don't have really
negative self thoughts like i'm like i'm
not enough but i do have like oh i need
to be better
yeah that's kind of what i think a lot
yeah so so i think that that's a very
very good
new man you're very nuanced soren so
there's there's a there's a
there's a new there's a important
difference between i'm not
good and i could be better
right i suspect that those are two sides
of the same coin
and i think that always striving to be
better
can come from a dissatisfaction with who
you are
i personally think that's what you've
got down there i think you've just
you've just put such positive psychology
language around it
like you just talk about growth but like
i do think that there's fear and other
negative emotion like i don't want to
hold everyone back
implies to me that if i really had to
guess what i'd say is that
in your mind you're afraid that you will
hold everyone back
and that's why you have to work harder
than everyone else because your
teammates don't deserve
to have someone like you hold them back
they deserve
to have someone who can really like live
up to expectations
and like be the coach that your team
needs and the coach that your team
deserves
and you're going to work really hard to
be that thing
but i think that there's still a
fundamental like fear
underneath there that you're like you
have to work really hard because
deep down if you just auto pilot it it's
not gonna be enough
um yeah so then you asked me the
question
is that necessarily bad because i seem
to be placing a judgment on it
what do you think
um
i guess
maybe this is not what you're asking but
i guess i feel like a lot of the time
the way that i
spend my life or live my life on
autopilot
uh just doesn't really make me happy i
think
i think i think i think i waste it's
uh i get like sucked into things very
easily like social media and obviously
those are
built to be addicting but uh
if i wasn't kind of pushing myself to be
a better person and to
live life more intentionally and use my
time wisely
that's why i have this stupid skull
because it reminds me that i don't live
forever and i try to make the most of
of my days it's a little bit more of a
time within my room but
it does help me especially when i have a
hard time getting up in the morning
but why do you have to make the most of
your days
why do i have to make the most out of my
days
i think it just makes me feel fulfilled
and it's not like all i do is work right
it's even just uh
being more intentional about even like
spending time with other people
i think when i live life very much on
autopilot i also isolate myself
a lot i'm definitely
pretty introverted and if i'm not kind
of
making myself get out there then i
isolate myself very much
can i think for a second sure take your
time
can you tell me about bullying
tell you about bullying what do you want
to know
so you mentioned that you dropped out of
school in fourth grade
eighth grade eighth grade so can you
tell me about
what what happened between fourth grade
and eighth grade what school was like
for you
uh it was
really bad uh
looking back i don't know i don't know
how hard i was being singled out
compared to kind of how sensitive
i was because my my parents always told
me that i was a very sensitive kid
especially compared to my brothers
but i felt very singled out by some
people in my class
by my teacher at the time
i felt like he was uh
somewhat bullying me or singling me out
uh but of course i was a kid so i don't
know how much that is true but that was
very much
my reality what do you remember
don't remember too much to be honest
i remember more so like in eighth grade
when people would
uh when the bus was coming like steal my
backpack
and hold it until the bus left so i
would have to go home without my
backpack or i would have to stay and
then
i would end up walking home a lot but
it's like
uh it's like a five mile walk or
something for my walk
um and
just being bullied a lot for being
skinny especially
i was a really really skinny and short
kid so bullied a lot for my body weight
my school was kind of up against the
kindergarten so they would throw me into
the kindergarten because they said i
i looked like a kid in kindergarten
because i was small and skinny
that was really [ __ ] painful at the
time for sure
underdeveloped oh
hey look i was full circle i tried to
map things out for you so i didn't i
didn't spring it on you bro you know
uh-huh that's right i didn't even i
didn't even realize that i was talking
about it
yeah i'm just gonna cry quietly to
myself for a second okay
um yeah let me ask you what
what uh
all right soren we're just getting
started buddy so
when when this thing happened with the
backpack like what did your
did you tell anyone
hmm
i don't think so
because that was in eighth grade so
i think back in sixth seventh fifth
grade
i would tell my parents and then they
would wanna contact the school contact
the principal contact their parents
and of course when you're a young kid
you care a lot about being cool and
i was always the kid who
so that's kind of like the popular group
of kids and i would always try to tag
along but i was never really a part of
of that circle
so i would be the kid that's getting
picked on in the popular circle
uh but i so desperately wanted to be a
part of that circle so i didn't want
my parents to talk to their parents and
and obviously
it's really silly now but at the time
it's to social status is really
important
doesn't sound silly to me
well i think if i was who i am now i
would just
there's a lot of kids at the school try
to find people who okay
accept me and that i could get along
with you don't have to be a part of the
most
popular clique in the school sure
well in that sense i think i would have
done better if i was i definitely
admired the kids
who you know kids would get picked on
for drawing
or for doing things that were considered
nerdy but they were really
they knew what they liked and they knew
the kind of people that they were
and i guess i was more so just trying to
fit in
so in hindsight as i got older i had a
lot of risk
i have a lot of respect for those kids
who
are able to be true to themselves and
what they enjoy even though it's not
cool or it's not what
most people like to do
and and i know this is going to be
bouncing what what
oh is this funny when you when you smile
i feel like you're
like oh okay this makes a lot of sense
what do you think is going on in my head
right now
um
i don't know okay i can't really tell
you
um
do you like being fulfilled
this feels like a trick question but
um
yeah okay it really wasn't a trick
question it was just sort of a
um you know i know it's certainly i can
see what you mean in terms of i'm trying
to i'm trying to let you know well in
advance before i lay out a trap for you
okay
okay um but
yeah okay how would you feel if i if i
could give you a pill that would make
you content
would you take it
actually that's a bad question but but
let's just hear your answer anyway
i feel like of course you would want to
say yes but i guess i'm worried that
it's a complicated question yeah
what's complicated about it
because of course you want to be sorry
what is the word content
uh but
i guess i just worry that i i might
kind of let myself go but also does that
really matter if i'm just content
but then i would probably also die young
because i would just
not exercise and not do these kinds of
things that are going to make me a
healthier person but
i'm definitely overthinking the question
nope i don't think you are i think
you're
i don't really know i can't tell you you
may be underdeveloped in many ways soren
but i don't think you're underdeveloped
in your thinking
i think you're a very precise thinker so
i've got kind of a fork in the road one
is you know we can get more to what i'm
pretty sure
is some sense of okay here's here's what
i'm hearing okay
so i'm gonna try to once again avoid
pits
but i'm detecting what i will call pit
soren
so there's like a sauron who's like
stuck in a pit
and this is the soren that maybe was
bullied maybe dropped out maybe was
isolated maybe felt
underdeveloped you know like you were
kind of in this dark place
and like it was really hard to like be
you and i think that like on paper
you've crawled out of there right like i
mean here you are
head coach of of a very popular league
of legends team
you know you have a a pretty star like a
pretty respectable
professional career behind you you've
clearly landed on your feet you've gotta
you know you're rocking a pretty awesome
beard um
you know there are a lot of things about
you that are like you can really be
proud of
and yet you don't strike me as someone
who's like
and i think this is where things get
really tricky because i think you are
proud of what you've done i think you
have grown you have matured and i
genuinely don't believe that like
you know i think you really do
appreciate that but then you've got that
skull in the back of your room and
and then like you know it's one thing to
want to live every day to your fullest
but you have this weird thing where you
need a reminder
and you need a graphic reminder because
what i see in that skull
is like a fear that unless like if you
ever slow down you're gonna be back to
pitsoren
that you've climbed fully out of the pit
but you need reminders
to keep you striving
and this is where you kind of say like
is that a bad thing is like feeling like
you're not good enough or wanting to
grow i think you've cloaked it in
positivity
it's absolutely adaptive it's absolutely
responsible
for your success
but there's a fundamental lack of
fulfillment there like that that can't
exist with fulfillment
and any time you start to feel fulfilled
i think you look at your skull over
there and it reminds you that
you're gonna die one day so better start
feeling unfulfilled because it's time to
grow
like we've got a lot of growing to do
and like we can't stop growing not even
for a single day heaven forbid that i
take a day off in four months
because i have so i would like to
yep i i think you would so what gets in
the way
uh i a lot of it is just my work
schedule so i think i wouldn't be
able to give you much more than a
practical answer
no but that's an impractical that's not
a because your work schedule
is determined i think right so this is
where like i'm going to toss out a
hypothesis usually i wait for hypotheses
hypothesis formation at the end but i
think it comes back to this feeling like
you have a lot of catching up to do
right so like you can't afford to take a
day off
that's what i if i had to piece things
together that's what i would
think based on what you've said is that
you don't have the luxury of a day off
[Music]
partially i think also just
at least this is what my kind of
ex-girlfriend told me that
being a head coach is a very very time
consuming job and if you want to be good
you do have to put a lot of time into it
and maybe it's more so that
the kind of person i am i found myself
coming into this
role does that make sense so i found
myself coming into this job that
maybe fulfills this drive or insecurity
that i have
what do you think about that
[Music]
there might be some truth to it i mean i
i enjoy responsibility
for sure and
you have a lot of responsibility as a
head coach
yeah it's interesting to think that you
know you picked a job that will always
make you feel like you have more
to do yep is that sort of the
implication
that that your ex-girlfriend was making
yep how do you feel about that
um
maybe but i don't really see playing as
too different i always had that
mentality when i was a player that
there's
always more that i can do um
but of course i i tried to balance that
as well with
other maybe things that are healthier
for me
yeah i wasn't just playing 14 hours a
day so so let me ask you this do you
feel
underdeveloped in other areas of your
life
yeah i would say so like what
or i'm kind of unsure about it if you
asked me
years ago i would say yes but now i
i think i realize a little bit more that
a lot of adults
or mid-20s people are kind of winging it
and they don't
well set uh whereas uh
i definitely have an issue of kind of
comparing myself to others
okay thinking that they have their [ __ ]
together and i
don't i think that kind of goes back to
this like idea that we were touching on
earlier that like
i think you've started to realize that
you may not actually be underdeveloped
but you carry that feeling with you
yeah so you mentioned earlier that you
felt like sort of behind socially too
maybe around eighth grade or after you
dropped out of school or when you met
your teammates that you felt like very
nervous
do you can you tell me a little bit more
about that feeling or what was in your
head
[Music]
what was in my head
that was a super vague question so let
me ask it this way it's kind of
difficult to answer yeah it was way too
vague
terrible question see i i could do
better
um can you tell me a little bit about
like what happened after you dropped out
after the eighth grade
um
i don't remember exactly but
in denmark you have to finish i guess
high school like 9th grade
so i would be gone for a bit but then
i don't know if i want to say the
authorities but people came to my house
and
talked to me and talked to my parents
like you have to go back to school it's
part of the law
someone kind of go back to school drop
back out back to school drop back out
here comes the the underdeveloped
maybe and
around this time i was
diagnosed with a non-verbal learning
disorder
and i started going to more like a
special needs school
with just less students and
a lot of them were kind of on the autism
or asperger's spectrum
and it was just kind of hard for me to
fit in i didn't really feel
fit in at the regular school and i
didn't really feel like i fit in at the
specialty school and now that i've gone
older i feel like
there's a good chance that it was kind
of an inaccurate diagnosis just based on
being in a really deep depression i
think that really changes you
but whether i am or have that or not
i don't really know but it was
was really tough on me at the time
how did you feel
what do you remember
how did i feel
i want to say the first thing that comes
to mind is i felt like my life was over
i'm not sure why i felt that way but
yeah totally
it's a good answer and um i remember
also feeling that way when
i first realized i had to wear glasses
because that was also
apparently a life ending thing when
you're a teenager
how would you feel if you missed two
hours of practice
[Music]
um
weak maybe
help me understand that um
i guess in a sense that is kind of
saying that
i'm unable to kind of cope with the
stress of the job in my free time
so i have to take a little time off of
practice
have you felt weak before
[Music]
yeah i mean i think being human is being
weak in a lot of ways
and here years ago
i always as a player i really kind of
idealized
the korean chinese work ethic which is
like
sacrifice everything play all day
you don't need to exercise you don't
need relationships you don't need
balance you just need to grind
that was maybe four years ago
maybe even longer maybe like five six
years ago that was really
kind of what i strive to be and then as
i got older i realized i'm human
i should look out for sure that sounds
very
healthy i mean in terms of i
i guess kind of what i'm hearing soren
is like
when i think about so
what exactly happened with the
kindergarten thing what did they do
they like move through me over the fence
yeah and so i didn't quite unders
i couldn't quite paint a picture in my
mind but like when i think about
so i was bullied a lot growing up too
and if i had to describe one word i'd
never thought about bullying this way
but if i had to describe like one word
if i had to pick one word to describe
how i felt it was weak
um yeah
so like this is where you know i i feel
like i'm really leading more than
following in this interview which is
like arguably a mistake because
generally speaking like i should like
listen to what you have to say and then
like form a hypothesis but
i'm seeing like a pretty clear chain
here
and it may be hard i could be wrong
because i'm really not doing a good job
i'm not
following the rules of normally how i
approach this but
i i mean here's what i'm hearing from
you soren is that like you carry this
like fear of weakness
with you and that like you
won't relent at all for
fear of like being back in the pit like
you're not gonna go back there ever
ever no one's ever gonna throw you over
the fence you're never gonna be weak
they're never like
like it's never gonna happen
like you've been there before and you
and and this kind of comes back to the
question of i think
you've paid a price to be where you are
and that price is having that skull on
your on your piano
right it's like if i ask yeah
do you think that this is something i
can change or do you think this is just
how my
life has shaped me to be do you want to
change it
um
i don't know i mean i like
i like who i am i think you do
yeah i don't know so you said
is this something you can change or is
this something that your life has shaped
you to be i don't think that's an either
or question i think both are true
so i think you've been shaped this way
for better or for worse and can you
change it absolutely
but i think in order to change it you
have to do something that you really
don't want to do which is that you have
to take
you have to like schedule your ceo
meetings during the week
right and i think what we what's really
holding you back is i i don't i don't
really and this could be me being
ignorant right so i i really don't
know what your team functions like but
i've like i understand the inside of
i think a few professional law
organizations
and and i've seen this a lot like i'm
i've seen this everywhere
like i've seen this in investment
banking i've seen and i just don't
i just don't think physiologically that
like not taking a day off
in four months leads to the best
performance
would you this is kind of separate from
the whole conversation
more practical but for me i'm really
balancing like do i want to have some
more free time
in my day-to-day in my work days or do i
want to have more workload in the work
days and then have
have this day off that i can kind of
call mine i think that's
the wrong way to think about it
oh okay right so i i think i think it's
going to be challenging but
and i think the real thing is that your
real barrier i think is actually
emotional because i think that like you
don't
want to feel weak like you want to feel
like you're not letting people down like
the possibility
i think you i know it sounds weird you
know like
if you set a limit on how much you do
and like you let your team down as a
result
how would you feel about that
yeah but i would just feel awful
why um
hmm
just because
um yeah i don't know i think they
deserve better
i think what do you deserve
work work has always been a just a big
part of my life
sure so i would probably feel
it's always been my north star to kind
of do better at
i don't even really call it work but i
would do better as a player better as
kind of a part of this team uh
so if i was to not put in my full effort
i think i would
probably lose
kind of part of who i am or my identity
yeah so i think that's a challenge so a
sword i'm going to talk about something
and i i don't know if is this useful is
this conversation useful to you i mean
would you rather be crying right now
because we can make that happen no i
mean i had a few opportunities to cry
but i
laughed it off instead i i mean i feel
like this is this is really important
because i think like
so a lot of times when i work with
people who are very successful
like we talk about letting go of
ambition
and and they sort of say like it's
ambition that's gotten me this far
like i don't understand like if i let go
so like a good example is like
like i work with a lot of people in
investment banking
and so those people like these people
like work really really hard like they
were
crazy hours you know it's like like big
big deals like 100 million dollar deals
billion dollar deals
and and they're they sort of like it's
always like there's always more to do
there's always a promotion there's
always another deal
and it's ambition that's gotten them
this far
and so they get really really concerned
that if i let go of my ambition like
i'll be nothing like this is who i am
right like you're someone who likes
soren i think you're never
gonna be weak again like to hell with
that
like you would never put yourself in
that situation
i think that the challenge here is that
you know if you look at the physiology
of performance
and there's been a lot of work on on
this kind of stuff like having high
levels of cortisol
a stress hormone which i imagine is
going to be higher in your system when
you're
working for four months without a break
is going to lead to
less creative decision making so when
cortisol is floating around in your
system and adrenaline is floating around
in your system these are stress hormones
that we release more of
when we work way too much it actually
reduces your capacity for creative
thinking
because when the way that our brains
evolved like
when our fight or flight system is
involved like we don't want creative
thinking like when i run into a tiger in
the woods
i don't want to think creatively like my
body needs to act
so like nuance gets lost and everything
becomes black and white
and i don't think and it's interesting
because we started off talking about
sort of this feeling of autopilot and
awareness
that decays throughout the season and
you say to me like oh yeah we have it at
the beginning i can think creatively but
then we fall into the grind
i think it's absolutely physiologically
or neuroscientifically
because literally as the season advances
your
your brain is going to change
and and so i know this sounds absolutely
insane but like when i talk to these
people and i'm like yeah you don't need
to be striving for a promotion
to be doing your best work and they're
really confused because they think that
like
if i'm not striving for a promotion i
don't know how to work
and the beautiful thing is that they i
mean oftentimes they wind up in my
office because
you know things need to change
and then and then we kind of get to the
point where i teach them how to let go
of their ambition and they do
wonderfully
because i i think it sounds kind of
weird but they're like other reasons for
you to work than ambition
and there are things that you can do
like your loyalty to your team not
wanting to let them down
needs to be separated from your personal
feelings of weakness
does that make sense
yeah i can't say i know how to do that
but yep so
and and that's why we're not going to
crying rap because i'd like to teach you
today and for everyone else
who like beats themselves up to try to
be something
because there's a huge difference
between not letting your team down
and you feeling personally weak and i
know it sounds kind of bizarre but it's
my
there's a hypothesis i don't know if
this is right or wrong that you
letting go of your feelings of weakness
will actually be like
will allow you to be the best coach for
your team
yeah i agree i definitely feel like i
don't know this is related but
sometimes i definitely do feel like uh
i'm too focused and worried about myself
when i should really be putting all my
focus on
on the players yeah that's really tricky
because you're gonna just
put i mean you're gonna find any reason
to beat yourself up so like i take that
with a grain of salt
right like like i i think the number of
ways in which you have thought through
that you can be better
is tricky because i think that's the
problem on the one hand you're
absolutely correct but on the other hand
like why aren't you good enough
was that an actual question yeah
why am i not good enough yeah
i don't really think i have an answer to
that do you feel not good enough
uh i mean it just goes kind of back to
where we
back to the beginning right i feel like
i can be better
i feel like i'm learning do you need to
be better
yeah why
to serve my team and my players better
can i think about that for a second sure
let me put it this way and i don't know
how much progress we're going to make
here
are you enough for your team
um
the way that i am yes um
no i don't think so
how would you know if you were
[Music]
i don't think i would know which is why
i say i don't think so i don't i don't
know for a fact
right so what if i told you i'm just i'm
gonna i'm gonna say something
and i want to know what your instinctive
reaction is to these words
you're enough for your team you're
exactly what your team needs
in the way that you are in this moment
you don't need to be
any better than what you are
it's hard hard for me to believe that
that's a very
sugar-coated response what what did you
think
what were you thinking is that what did
you think and feel as i said those words
what did i think and feel
uh that
that it was very nice of you but that
that you don't really know
there cuz you don't know how i work you
don't see my work
yep and if i did see what would i notice
what is it that i don't know about you
soren that you do
uh i mean i don't even know yet
of course there are a lot of things that
i know i can do better and then there's
the things that i'm kind of yet to
discover yeah so this is tricky but i'm
going to
try to say this one more time like if i
knew you
the way that you know yourself soren
what would i
what's the difference right because i i
can tell that like when i said that what
i saw in your eyes was
this guy has no [ __ ] idea what he's
talking about
right so tell me what i don't know
what do you not know what are you
um i don't really know how to answer
that question
not knowing how to answer that question
is different from
like there's something i'm missing right
because for me to say that it's like
ignorance
does that make sense like yeah
yeah i mean so educate me
educate you what am i ignorant of
what part of you don't i understand what
am i missing
well i'm thinking more in relation to to
my work right
sure
um
yeah i guess just i feel like i can
i feel like i can always do more and i
can always work harder
which is maybe not what you want to hear
but
yeah so i think that what we're getting
into is a is a conflict because i think
you're
like i think you have to unsugar coat it
to be able to say it
so so let me let me let me this i'm not
trying to hide anything i'm just
i i i don't think you are i think it's
just gonna be tough
right so maybe i'm barking up the wrong
tree but like
i can tell so the reason that i said
that is because i know you're gonna have
like
when i said like i think you are enough
right like i think you're fine by your
players by the way have you ever talked
to your players about whether
they feel like you're letting them down
[Music]
no what do you think about having a
conversation like that
[Laughter]
um
yeah i don't really know i feel like
most of them would just be
be really nice about it what does that
mean be
really nice about it
oh sorry i'm just i need to answer a
message from my manager
okay um
i think if i was to ask a question like
am i letting you down i think that
obviously if someone was to ask me that
it would kind of seem like they need
reassurance
so i would probably give them
reassurance maybe i would
yeah i guess that's just how i feel
okay so
how would they signal to you if they
really thought you were not letting
them down what could they say to you
that would convince you that they think
you're doing a fantastic job and they're
happy to have you
[Music]
do you mind repeating that yeah so like
how would they signal to you so like
let's say so
here's what what okay let's just take a
step back start from the top
okay so it's my belief that you have
a sense of inadequacy that
keeps you striving to be the best but is
personally like tortures you
like i think it's got to be like a hard
way to live your life where you wake up
like somewhat content
you're like ah let me sleep in and then
you see that skull
and the skull is like [ __ ] you get out
of bed
weakling right
you're like on the days that i'm really
tired i look at the skull
and it reminds me that i need to be
better in that i'm not good enough
and so okay fine so then i turn to you
and i say something
absolutely idiotic which is soren i
think you're fantastic just the way that
you are
and you're like this [ __ ] guy that's
his job he sees the best in everyone
right it's his job to like accept people
but he doesn't
understand
right totally understand like that's
fair it's completely fair i don't
i don't know you bro i'm missing
something
it's my job to see the best in everyone
and there's like something in you that
is clearly not the best
fine i accept that too because i don't
know you you're right
then i ask you so fill me in tell me
help me understand what it is about you
that i don't know
you have a lot of trouble answering that
because there's like
if we think about it like you can't
protest
against my statement unless there's
something like because
your your your protest is like quite
strong
and so i think that like it's like pit
soaring down there that's like you
didn't see me when i got tossed over the
fence into the kindergarten
then you had to like walk through the
[ __ ] kindergarten back to your school
like
you know like that's pathetic man
and yeah right so i think that that like
leaves a scar and i think this is the
scar that we're running up against
and now we get into a real problem
because
your adaptation to that scar is
responsible for your success
it's the work ethic it's the the
constant feeling that you could be
better
and like like that's what's gotten you
to where you are
and so fair i don't know your team i
don't know league of legends
i'm a noob fine i don't know you fine
right because the response that i heard
when i said i think you're good enough
is you don't know me
like you don't you don't really know you
don't know what you're talking about
fine so there's something there about
you that is not good enough fine
so then let's let's turn to someone who
does know right like because your
teammates know
like they're your teammates like they
know whether you're doing a good job
they know whether you're doing enough
and and then we get to the real crux of
the problem is that like if you go to
them and you say like
am i doing enough like what are they
gonna see they're gonna see someone
who's weak
who needs reassurance and they're gonna
say
yeah no so uh soren you're doing great
man
oh man you're so handsome
you're so smart right like that's
like you feel like you're gonna be like
like now i'm almost getting like like
they're gonna put you in the special
school all over again like they can't
they can't give it to you straight
and so the two things that i'd point out
to you is first like how would you know
right if they actually did think that
you did an awesome job
and that like like because i i'm i can
almost i can
i'm pretty sure if i had the opportunity
to talk to them this is what they'd say
that your work ethic is amazing that
you're an inspiration
and that like they're really optimistic
because like you're on their team
and that they think you're doing a
fantastic job
like i would i would give you ten to one
odds that that's what they would say
and now the problem is like now i'm
gonna point out to you like where the
problem is is like how are you gonna
know like how are you gonna know if
you're enough
even if they tell you if i tell you like
no as many people as you want to
can tell you but as long as that voice
is there
discounting and undermining everything
all of the signals
that get sent your way this is not going
to change
and what i'm talking about is like a
radical change
this is reshaping who you are
it's like accepting that you actually
are enough today and you can do more
tomorrow don't worry
you don't have to let go of being better
tomorrow
but what i want to let i want you to
what i want you to do is let go of like
feeling fundamentally not good enough
because i suspect that like in other
parts of your life too
you know and i don't know how much to
read into his ex-girlfriend but
you know in other parts of your life too
like i'm afraid that there may be
situations where you are
actually fully adequate but you don't
feel that way
that that is actually on point yeah
in my relationship i often felt like i
was not
or i felt like she was dissatisfied with
me a lot even though
then she would tell me i am satisfied
with you
but maybe like there's this thing or
this thing but those things would
hit me very hard so so this is what i
see in in people
who like have what you have
is that they become self-fulfilling
prophecies
so like when someone feels inadequate in
a relationship
their partner will tell them no i
actually really like being
with you but their mind will latch on to
the 10
of what their partner says instead of
the 90 i really do want to be with you
and of course you're not perfect and
then your mind is like there it is
let's let's shove aside the 90 of
contentment and
and zero in on the 10 and that actually
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy
we see this as well in people who have a
fear of abandonment where like they
think like they're
they tell their partner or the they're
afraid that their partner is going to
leave them
partners like no i'm not going to leave
you like i like being in this relation
they're like you're going to leave
like no i'm not and then like they tell
them like you're gonna leave i know
you're gonna leave
you didn't text me back who are you with
you're gonna leave me
you're gonna leave me you're gonna leave
me i have i i have also had that in a
relationship and i did at the
record right and it's like it becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy
so i think like soren you're playing a
rigged game man
and it all cut like it doesn't matter
like who you hear it from
how qualified there are like even if you
heard it from the ceo you're like he
doesn't
know right like like if if your ceo is
like
hey i saw and i think you're doing a
fantastic job like
you'd be like he doesn't see what i do
day to day
that voice is always do you see the
voice that i'm talking about that's
just like always there
yeah so do you
want that to change is that voice a bad
thing
[Music]
i guess my worry is if i don't have that
voice
i always had the feeling that if i ever
lost my drive i just shouldn't be in
this
line of work because this line of work
is like
striving to be the very very best and
you have to make sacrifices to do that
so i guess part of my worry is if i was
to lose that
i don't think i would find as much joy
out of this work and then i would have
to find something else to do and i
don't know what that would be so i
disagree with that completely
so i understand where you're coming from
it just hasn't been my experience
at all so can i can i try to convince
you for a moment
sure so
i get what you're saying that like this
voice is what drives you forward
right and this is why i asked you at the
very beginning and you asked me to you
were like is this a bad thing
then i asked you do you want to get rid
of it and i don't think you do
and that's the problem so like when i
ask you like do you want to be fulfilled
i don't think you do
like i think that any time you you have
like
like i don't see you like ever relaxing
like even when you win right i am i'm
really afraid of
complacency because i've seen
[Music]
i've seen i've been playing i have what
i had
and i could have continued to play if i
wanted to i won the
the north american season before i i
chose to go into coaching
and i played professionally for i think
eight years and i saw
just so many players find success and
then
become comfortable and then eventually
uh stop playing because
they kind of lost their drive
and i understand that so i i think
though
soren you're not them i'm not worried
about you losing your drive
and i actually think that like the best
that the best performance you're gonna
see
by all means grind by all means work a
lot like i'm not telling you to like not
work
but i think that the best like
literally like neuroscientifically and
like
optimizing performance wise when you're
operating from a place of like positive
energy and positive emotion you're
actually going to outperform
what you're capable of with like
negative energy and negative emotion
i do want to say i feel like before
kobet i was
closer to that uh living a kind of more
balanced lifestyle
i think covetous definitely maybe
brought out the worst in that because
we were also in a really strict bubble
system in order to stay safe right so i
was only at my apartment
and at the office i didn't see any
friends for six months
well even longer obviously like for it
so it's just kind of all my time has
really gone into
working which probably um
strengthens these feelings so
that makes me think even more so that
like
letting go of some of these feelings is
going to be a step forward for you
because if if in a high stress
environment these feelings are getting
worse like generally speaking like
depression and anxiety and all that
stuff is getting worse during coconut
so it's not like your optimal function
it's like
it's almost like a coping mechanism it's
like it's like your internal cheat code
to keep working
and something tells me that like
you know i'm not seriously i'm not
saying slack off but i don't think
you're gonna slack off i don't think we
have to worry about you slacking off
like i don't think that
if this changed in you emotionally i
think there's too much
programming in your brain your neurons
have wired a certain way to where you're
not going to just like wake up and do
nothing
like it's just not who you are
and what's going to change then or what
what could change them
it's a good question um
so i think that like like i was saying
there are a couple of feelings that are
tangled up here
one is like striving to be the best one
is not wanting to let your team down
and the third is like feeling weak or
inadequate
what i'm saying is that i don't think
that all three of those have to like go
together
right like you can care about your
teammates you can want to not let them
down
but also recognize that like you are
good enough
that together as a team you guys can
actually do this
that you don't have to worry like you
shouldn't be worrying about
like whether you're good enough or not
like you've got no head space for that
you should be focused like fully on your
team like you said you kind of think a
little bit about yourself too much
because i know it sounds weird but i
mean if we're talking about
self-fulfilling prophecies in
relationships
that could happen in the professional
space too
and the real problem here at the end of
the day sort i think the real problem is
that you don't
like you can't ever know what's right
and what isn't
right like you can't ever know like
what's gonna be enough if i tell you
you're not gonna listen if your
teammates tell you that you're not gonna
listen
so like if there was some objective
measure of your enoughness then i'd say
this is a whole different ballgame
but in the absence of that like your
mind is always going to tell you that
you're not enough
it's not enough that you need to be
better and you can love your teammates
you can want to like lead them to
victory
but like being fundamentally faithless
in yourself which i'm using
like exaggerated language here is like
not gonna be
and now we're falling into another chat
because now i'm telling you that you you
that you need to be better
but you know like fundamentally
believing that you are good enough
fundamentally believing that you are
what your team
needs can lead to hubris or pride or
complacency
but i think in your case at the highest
levels of performance sorin
i think it starts to become maladaptive
that for 99
of the road the work ethic that you've
got in the emotions that you've got
and feeling not good enough is going to
get you 99
of the way there but if you want to walk
that last step you have to let go of
this
what do you think
[Music]
um
uh i agree and
i have come up
maybe against these kinds of things with
with a therapist
and they're just so
deeply rooted that i i don't know where
to begin
you know okay so
we can i'm glad you see a therapist by
the way that's good um
so let me now now let's let's do this
together
okay so if you're with me like where i i
don't have an answer for you so we're
gonna have to figure this out together
okay what do you think about that
sure i hear one of the tales but
okay so so let's think about the
conundrum so here i am telling you that
you need to accept yourself
more and that you are good enough right
and really feeding into my thing that
you're telling me that
if i change something i can be even
better yeah exactly exactly that
so that's the problem so what what what
do we
what do we do about that because even if
i try to tell you to move in the right
direction i'm actually falling into your
trap you're the one who's trapped me
yeah i mean i honestly have no idea
where to begin
well sorry i was i was coming up at a
point where
i was learning more so to kind of accept
and understand myself rather than trying
to change
yeah so so then then then i think that
sounds right
um so but then then i guess then what we
i have a practical answer for you but i
just want to appreciate the conundrum
that we're in here which is that
either you accept yourself where you are
and then you don't strive to be better
which is sort of i guess winning
or i'm telling you hey like you need to
learn how to accept yourself which is
like
you don't does that make it it's like it
doesn't it was stuck
right so if we truly accept you then
what we should say is
soren you should continue not accepting
yourself
that is acceptance
yeah right and then if if we say like
sorry you need to learn how to accept
yourself that was very convenient for me
right so or i can say soren you need to
you need to learn how to accept yourself
which isn't of itself
not accepting yourself
so we're stuck so the good news is that
there's actually like a really simple
way to move forward and i think
you're well along this path the first is
just to notice
the absurdity of what we're talking
about it's dumb
the whole thing is unsolvable
okay and i know it sounds kind of weird
but every time you notice that feeling
in you
that you need to be better and then if
you move towards saying like oh i
shouldn't feel this way
that's wrong and if you blindly follow
it that's wrong too
so like what we really need is simply
just awareness
to recognize that like either path we go
down is wrong
and so if we don't go down a path like
what do we do
like if i'm not moving like so you're
saying if i walk down this path it's
wrong if i walk down this path it's
wrong
so what are my options then
i don't know it's it's weird so
do nothing with awareness
right just notice i know it's weird but
just like
notice the conundrum within you and on a
much more
practical level there are going to be
times in your life
where you're gonna feel like taking
you know an hour off to
do like meet with the ceo you're gonna
feel weak
like you should be able to handle it
does that make sense
yeah like throughout your week very
practically there are going to be times
where you feel weak
where you feel inadequate where you're
afraid of holding everyone back
and so a lot of your actions and your
schedule
has been structured based on those
negative emotions
of fear and inadequacy and things like
that does that make sense
so this is going to be tough for you
soren it's going to be very hard
but don't give in to those negative
emotions
right and what i mean by that is notice
that like like if you schedule a meeting
with your manager
during practice you're gonna feel like
you're letting your team down
and this is where like honestly what i
would recommend i'm gonna give you like
a very simple straight
straight playbook so you go to your team
and and you should have a conversation
with them about hey we meet for practice
eight hours a day
i have some other obligations as coach
i've got to meet with this person and
this person
how would you all feel about me taking
some of those meetings in the middle of
practice and then like the assistant
coach
like how would you guys feel if i missed
like an hour or two of practice a day
okay that sounds extremely uncomfortable
yup
there it is what are you feeling right
now
week because if i was the player i would
say
don't you have x amount of hours before
and after practice to do those things
why do you need to do it in the middle
of practice
okay sure so if that's what they say
then you're going to listen to them
well that's what i would tell myself but
yeah
right so so so and and this is what like
like i think you've got
to like like listen to your team
right and say like do i need to be here
i mean i'm assuming you guys you don't
how many hours a week do you all i don't
want to like ask you too many details
about what your practice schedule is and
stuff like that
because that could be like competitive
information but i'm assuming that
you know you guys are basically
practicing like six days a week
um
[Music]
the schedule is it's kind of different
now so we have actually
three match days and then one off day
and then we have uh
three practice days okay
during season so so if it's if it's
during season maybe you need to crunch
things too so i'm willing to concede
that like if you guys
have three match days and three practice
days maybe you don't want to miss any of
that
but i think it's worthwhile like having
a conversation with your team
and like this is the whole point is that
you can't let your feelings of weakness
determine what's right or wrong
and if if it's season maybe you don't
have time to
because that sounds super tight to me
like i don't i'm not hearing there's
actually a whole lot of time
so it's really difficult yeah but we
don't have as much
near as much practice as we used to be
able to do so so then the question is
like do you need to be meeting with your
ceo like
during this time
uh
uh i'm not sure okay so so so i i
what i'm hearing from you sauron is that
that like really if you guys have three
match days and like one day of practice
between matches that really doesn't
sound like there's a whole lot of time
to do anything else
yeah so i'm i know that sounds kind of
anti-climactic but i think i'm going to
have to
take a step back from what i was saying
earlier
because that really does sound quite
different to me um
but i i still think the general like
idea of of
you know not letting the sensation of
like and in that case i i think the
reason that
you know you shouldn't scale back is not
because you feel weak but because
there's actually like a necessity
you guys have eight hours of practice
but essentially it sounds like you guys
have one day of practice before a match
um monday we have a day off and then
tuesday wednesday thursday we practice
and then we have
friday saturday sunday three matches in
a row oh i see
so that's so yeah it still sounds super
tight from a scheduling standpoint
so i i know it sounds kind of i've been
trying to avoid asking you details of
your schedule just for
like that's everyone's practice
schedules okay
um yeah i'm gonna have to accept some
some teams that
obviously don't take an off day
sometimes or push the
training schedule longer on some other
days because we have less practice days
and things like that but
i'm trying to figure out how to salvage
my argument because i i feel like i just
torpedoed it
um so i still think that there's like
a broader point here i don't know about
this particular schedule
but i'm getting the sense that you're
still motivated by a lot of like feeling
inadequate what do you think about that
[Music]
yeah i think so so i i think your road
forward is still the same in this
particular instance i don't think
it and i i i don't know if this makes
sense but
i still don't think that the reason you
sh so you shouldn't meet with your ceo
on a tuesday wednesday thursday that
makes perfect sense to me
at the same time i think the reason you
shouldn't meet with them
is not because you feel weak but it's
like literally you just don't have time
because you've got to work
do you understand how there's a
difference there
[Music]
kind of but there is time
there is time for what
i could have a meeting do you think that
that would
what would be the cost of that meeting
if you met with the ceo on tuesday
just kind of the flexibility of my
time i guess those days where we end up
practice
it differs but maybe the average
practice day we ended like 6 30 or seven
and then i am kind of flexible to
do i want to stay at the office and work
do i want to
relax and hang out with my players and
staff do i want to go home but if i have
that meeting then
no matter kind of how i feel maybe how
how stressed i am on the day i have to
do this thing
it's nice to have more flexibility
because some practice days are
are really hard and really taxing okay
so i i think that that makes sense that
you want flexibility so let me ask you
this have you noticed
anything in your schedule that is driven
by the sense
of feeling like if you didn't do that
you would be weak
if i didn't do that i would be weak
sorry do you mind asking one more time
yeah sorry i i think we're kind of
getting like lost in the weeds here but
like here's the general
i was hoping that there was an easy
application
but upon hearing what your schedule is
like i don't think there is but here's
my general idea okay
and and maybe we won't find a specific
thing but
so in your role as head coach you have
certain like work responsibilities which
are necessities
right like you have to show up for
practice you need to strategize you guys
need to figure out what heroes you're
gonna pick
you have to like watch replays from like
the matches that you have coming up
like all that stuff is like necessary i
totally get that
what i'm hearing from you and i'm pretty
sure that this is sort of like
a theme that we've sort of uncovered is
that at times
your actions are not motivated by the
necessity of the job and if you really
tunnel down and you become highly aware
you'll notice that they're not actually
they make look like what is necessary in
the job
but really what it is is you feel
like you would be weak or you'd be
letting your players down
if you like
didn't do this thing so some actions are
motivated by necessity and some actions
are motivated by avoiding feeling weak
yeah i think the that kind of gray area
a lot of it for me is how much i'm
studying
the other regions play because there's
an infinite amount of games from other
regions
that's really where i think as a coach
you can really
put in the hours and
there's not a necessity for me to watch
all the games because it's simply not
possible
but i think that's where
a lot of the times i feel inadequate if
i'm not up to date if i don't if i
didn't watch the matches from last night
um
yeah i think that's probably one of the
bigger ones that come to mind
yeah so that that's i think that's a
great example because that's something
where like you could do work and it's
reasonable for you to do work
but i don't know exactly how you find
this i think it's going to be through
some self-reflection
but right now you somehow decide how
much to watch
right like there's some internal
calculus that on week to week like you
either watch a lot or you watch less or
whatever
[Music]
yeah it's kind of a difficult thing it's
one of those things that i i haven't
really been able to balance
i'll watch a lot and then maybe i will
kind of burn out and then need to take
more time and then i will barely watch
and i can't find this healthy
exactly exactly so now i feel like this
is salvageable
because i think that that pattern of
burnout or
like a ton of work followed by burnout
is a hundred percent
what you see when someone is driven by a
negative emotion
right because you're beating yourself up
you're like i'm inadequate i need to
watch more i need to watch more i need
to watch more
and then you actually burn yourself out
and then you don't watch and this is
what i'm saying in
in terms of optimizing performance is
that
if you pay attention to that feeling
that drives you to watch to the point of
burnout
and you don't let that control you on
balance i'd say
four out of five people that find a way
to balance that the way to balance it is
actually your feeling of inadequacy at
the beginning because that's what's
driving you to burn out in the first
place
yeah and so if you can oh
become aware of that feeling of
inadequacy and
and not be driven by it then you
actually won't burn out
and if you won't burn out you'll
actually end up watching more matches
more productively than you would in the
way that you are right now
yeah i agree 100 so the key there is
going to be that like
sort of deciding like how like sort of
from a
tranquil state of mind how many hours of
things you're going to watch
and once you sort of make like an
initial determination
if you feel inadequate in the middle
you have to try really hard to at least
be aware of that
and then ask yourself this question
because remember whether you if you
don't watch the game we're screwed and
if you do watch the game you're screwed
but just ask you know that's the paradox
we were talking about just ask yourself
am i watching this game because i feel
inadequate
like i'd be letting my team down
even though i don't feel like watching
it even though i'm tired
am i doing this because i don't you know
because of that feeling the skull
do you think you could ask yourself that
question
and when when the answer is inevitably
sometimes going to be that i am doing it
because of those things and what i do
what do you think you do
uh
[Music]
something i've been trying to do more
recently is just
kind of sit with those feelings more
good
that's the right thing yeah so like i
know it sounds weird but whether you
watch the game this is what's really
confusing for a lot of people about like
self-growth
the actual action you take at the end of
the day is not rewiring the neurons
what rewires the neurons is asking
yourself the question and being able to
authentically answer it
i know it sounds really weird but as
long as you ask yourself the question
and authentically answer it you will
move one step closer to balance
because on some days your mind is gonna
actually generate the thought and it'll
say
you know what you can take a break
and on other days it's gonna be like you
know what you really can't deserve to
take
you don't deserve to take a break you
need to watch this and we can't know
which one your mind is gonna produce and
it's actually fine
either one it produces is okay the key
thing is asking yourself the question
and coming up with an authentic
awareness
of what's driving you
that makes sense yeah
thoughts questions about today
i know things got super abstract and
confusing there at the end
so sorry about that no no that that was
really helpful
because i
i am definitely aware that i didn't have
a healthy relationship with
that aspect of my work especially
and then one last thought
is when it comes to social relationships
things like that
or like you know non-professional things
i would encourage you to pay a lot of
attention once again to that feeling of
inadequacy
right and try to figure out like you
know what which of your actions is being
driven by that feeling
and the more that you become aware of it
the more it'll start to dissolve
and then the last question that i'll
leave you with which is i think
ultimately soaring the one that you're
gonna have to answer for yourself and
this is for everyone listening to
if you feel inadequate you really have
to pay be careful
about how you respond
to people that tell you otherwise
right because i think the biggest issue
here is that like
you don't it's a lose-lose situation
like no matter like if if your teammates
say like yeah like you're doing
fantastic you're gonna swat that down
if i say it you're gonna swat that down
sometimes people like the people that we
care about us like when we're feeling
inadequate we'll swat down what they say
and you really have to like understand
where that comes from
like why are you so quick to swat down
what other people say
yeah definitely when i used to get
compliments i would
pretty much answer in like uh
thanks but you don't know me yeah but i
learned the socially acceptable thing is
just to
even even if i don't truly believe it to
still
yep well to try not to show that because
that's a very disrespectful thing to
show yeah so i understand that you
learned socially what to say but then
the question is like
like what not on the inside and i think
it's hard for you to answer this but
like what is it that
we don't know about you right when you
say when your mind says you don't know
me
it implies there's something inside you
that people don't know like they don't
know something about you
but when i ask you what that thing is
like i'm not
hearing anything no i've
i've definitely made a lot of progress
in when people
give me a compliment or say nice things
about me that a lot of the time i i do
genuinely believe it
whereas maybe
five years ago i would never yeah so so
i don't i don't feel
constantly inadequate yeah yeah um
yeah i i i hope i didn't give
you the impression that i feel that
that's how you feel oh no that that's
that is how i felt in the past yeah i'm
just saying that
it's not that i always have that
response so like oh you don't know me
you don't know what's wrong with me
uh so so here's what i've
found when people have that kind of
response like you don't know me
the more you tunnel down and look where
that response comes
from the more it dissolves
because usually that response like is a
leftover emotion
from a traumatic experience earlier in
your life
it's like you carry that sense of
inadequacy or like
like imagine what you were taught to
believe
about yourself between the fourth and
eighth grade
like the sense of identity and so like
what happens is when someone compliments
you is that
part of your identity which was formed
back then
kind of like rises to the surface and
tries to swat down the compliment
whereas now like like how old are you
soren ballpark
25 okay so like when we look at soren
like 25 year old sorin who's won the
north american championships and is
you know head coach and all this other
good stuff like that person has
a lot of authentic reasons to feel good
about themselves
and to feel proud of what they've
accomplished and things like that
but inside you there's also like eighth
grade soren who gets
chucked over the wall and like that
echo the echo of that identity is what
rebels against
the compliment and the more you tunnel
down and you say why am i swatting this
compliment away the more you look for it
you're actually not going to find an
answer
it's just going to be that feeling and
the more you do that process of looking
for why you're swatting down the
compliment
the less that feeling the more that
feeling will kind of go down
and then you'll be kind of like go walk
around not feeling
you know like occasionally like you're
weak like it emerges at times right
it's like open up weakness.exe and then
it runs for five minutes and then it
closes down
okay yeah that's really helpful
thoughts questions
um yeah this is really
insightful thanks for having me on the
stream
guess what i'm thinking
what i'm saying oh he's just saying that
to be nice
no no definitely not
oh i mean that was part of what i was i
guess what a lot of people
hope for when they talk to you and i'll
definitely have to go back and re-watch
and
think a little bit more about this stuff
you seem to have a very contemplative
face so i had some trouble kind of
reading where you are right now can you
help me understand like where you are
right now
contemplative face yeah you are you have
a thinking face
you seem to be thinking a lot
i think i'm just a thinker i think
that's possible
um can you help me understand what was
helpful or what was insightful about
today
[Music]
um
just kind of understanding better why i
am the way i am
and some of the
i guess complexes that i have and
bringing more self-awareness to them and
maybe understanding a little bit more
where they come from of course i know
that my past is affecting me in the
present but
not always so
aware as to how or how to help it
um and
it definitely it's a little bit blurry
the the
the kind of toxic feelings of inadequacy
versus the more
like you said like the necessity of what
i have to do
uh sometimes it's hard to tell the
difference
um
what do you think is well i guess i
already kind of know the answer but
i assume that meditation is a good way
to kind of cultivate that
self-awareness
in your thinking and your patterns and
things like that
what do you think
i think so but it's a habit that i've
never really been able to it's never
been able to stick with me for some
reason
maybe because it's driven by my
inadequacy
when i do it ah tell me about that
what happens when you try to meditate
sorry
[Music]
what happens when i try to meditate
uh it's not like a super uncomfortable
experience for anything i just have a
hard time
just sitting down and getting it done i
think a lot of the things that i do
there's a very clear motivation to it
but with meditation i don't really have
one
even though i know it's it's it's good
for you but
let me think about this for a second
sure
so your first question was how do you
gain self-awareness
i have had kind of bouts of meditating
consistently and i definitely noticed
especially an increased awareness of
when i was really present and when i'm
not
when i'm really in my own head
um do you want an easy meditation
technique or a hard meditation technique
whatever you think is i'm gonna give you
a super hard one
okay so
oh we're gonna practice quickly i want
you to sit up straight
so i want you to as you breathe in
through your nose
say the word strength in your mind and
as you breathe out i want you to say the
word weakness
in your mind
just do one breath
were you able to do it
okay now comes the hard part
every time you walk through a door a
doorway
i want you to breathe to yourself and
inhale strength
and exhale weakness
i think i would feel really silly doing
that but yeah you don't have to say it
right so it just has to be an internal
thing like just
and if the strength and weakness feels
weird to you you can even let go of that
just inhale and exhale every time you
walk through a doorway
okay how does that feel to you
is the strength weakness part a little
bit cheesy
[Music]
a little bit so i'll leave that one up
to you
i had a therapist years ago that
made me do a lot of uh kind of
affirmations
and positive affirmations you know stuff
never really clicked with me
perfect let's let's swap it around we're
going to inhale weakness and breathe out
strength how about that
that sounds great does that feel more
comfortable for you
uh
sounds a little depressing to be honest
so
so so which you tell me that
no i i i it's
the inhaling strength of the excellence
is not it's not bad
it was more having to look at myself in
the mirror and say these things out loud
i thought it was
very cheesy but no but you're not
looking at anything we're not
no not with you i was referring back to
what like yeah i think positive i think
positive affirmations are terrible
i think you're not not what i would
recommend for you
and and and i encourage you i know this
sounds kind of weird soren but i
encourage you
to like actually play around with it so
by all means
do weakness and strength or strength and
weakness whichever way you want to do it
you can do both or neither
the key thing is going to be going
through the doorway but if it feels
cheesy for you maybe that can be good
and if it feels depressing that can be
good and just play around with it right
because it's two sides of the same coin
i don't think cheesy's
necessarily a bad thing okay
so try that it's gonna be really really
hard
okay like this is like a you know uh
like a professional level technique and
the reason is because our brain is
actually
wired to reset our thought process
anytime we go through a doorway
it's why i don't know if you've ever
experienced this but if you walk like
you'll walk into a room and you'll be
like why did i walk into this room what
was i doing
it's actually this weird thing about
doorways but it's like the best way to
cultivate self-awareness because it's so
hard
okay okay that's the meditation
all right any last day meditation
yep you're right it is an all-day
meditation
would anything less be sufficient for
you
uh i guess not
right so the other thing is that
sometimes i use this meditation
technique to trick people into
meditating normally because they try
this for
a week and they're like this is terrible
i'm just gonna sit down for five minutes
and meditate normally which if you
decide to do that that's totally fine
too
but give it a shot um all right
and any last thoughts or questions
before we wrap up for the day
um no
okay thanks again for for having me
thanks for coming on man i
i hope um it was helpful and you know i
think you're fantastic i really do think
that your team is very
lucky to have you thank you
how did you respond internally
uh no genuinely uh thankful
yeah i got that because you're because
you're not you're not
um
you're speaking from from your
perspective and i can be thankful for
your perspective
i have a hard time when you're telling
me objectively what i am
that's yeah more difficult fair fair
because i don't know objectively what
you are
yeah but anyway thanks a lot for coming
on and and good luck with the season
dude
yeah thanks very much take care man bye
oh any suggestions who we should raid
let me see
my my friend myth have you ever had him
on here
i don't think so but we can read myth i
think we've raided myth before
is he is he online he might not be
online
oh he's not so you uh
oh i think your chat should pay okay our
chat sure they would have a better idea
than me
okay thanks a lot and good luck
seriously dude yeah
thanks very much take care bye keep
doing where you're doing take care right
chat send asman gold some love
playing some wow sounds like fun